---
layout: page
permalink: /web/
title:  "Next time you buy a website, ensure you're ready to tap into startup culture."
---

Websites are still big business; there will always be new companies and projects
that need to get their presence online. In today's economy it can be very
expensive to hire for this process. The average website can cost upwards of 50k
and the process is riddled with hyperbole. You get sold things like CMS, SEO,
analytics, agile and of course security. All of this sounds great and can
be very successful if used correctly. The problem is that most businesses are
not set up internally to accept these services adequately. Often they lack the
technical experience to fully evalute the benefit of each decision. This can be
stressful and business negotiations can end up being a one way relationship.
Vendors usually end up putting far more effort into sales tatics than improving
their offerings. In today's economy passionate developers are also increasingly
less likely to seek employment building websites at all. The availablity of
open-source code and startup investor interest is causing an increasing
entrepreneurial shift. In the end the costs of getting a website built keep
going up and the product pretty much stays the same.

So what should your focus be? Let's see if we can break down some of this
hyperbole first.

## Website hype

#### CMS

#### SEO
The [World Wide Web][0] was designed to be a decentralized set of interconnected
documents. Each document adhered to a standard format so that it could be
interpreted by a web browser. The early web had no crawlers; instead you had to
submit your site index to massive categorized indexes like Yahoo.

It wasn't until Google was conceived of that optimization was even relevant.
Google had managed to design algorithms that could index a document amongst
millions of others and return relevant content back to a human. All they had to
do was follow the standards which define the web and crawl it from link to 
link; it was the next logic step in the evolution of web.

.  Search engine optimization is technically the process of ensuring that your

content has the proper semantic markup and meta data to be digested properly by
search engines. 

#### Analytics

#### Agile

#### Security

## It's all about operations

#### Get your domain sorted

#### Generate your site

#### Use your data naturually

#### Your site is part of a constellation

#### Keep your code on GitHub

#### Utilize Open-source

#### Expose your code

#### Know passionate developers

[0]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Wide_Web
